## Question 4
### a)
Abstraction focuses on hiding the implementation details, exposing only the essential features. It uses interfaces, to specify "what" to use, without needing to know its implementation.

Meanwhile generalisation focuses on creating a common structure by identifying shared characteristics. It uses inheritance to create child classes that are specialized versions of a parent class. It extracts shared attributes and methods.

### b)
One java construct to illustrate generalisation is by using inheritance. Specifically, the "extends" keyword. This is done by creating a parent child class, where the child class using existing code from the parent, to create a specialized version of the parent.
```java
class Animal {
	String sound = "Animal Noises";
	
	void makeNoise() {
		System.out.println("Animals make " + sound);
	}
}

class Dog extends Animal {
	sound = "Bark";
	
	void makeNoise() {
		System.out.println("Dogs " + sound);
	}
}
```

Another way is by using generics. Generics is used for generalising methods and classes. This means that the same logic can work on unrelated datatypes, without needing a common parent class. 
The class below uses generics to allow you to store one item in the Storage class, regardless of the item's datatype. You can store integers, strings, or whatever inside.
```java
class Storage<T> {
	private T item;
	
	public void add(T item) {
		this.item = item;
	}
	
	public T get(T item) {
		return item;
	}
}
```

### c)
- One benefit for generalisation, is that we can reduce the amount of code to write. We can reuse code, by calling parent child classes.
- Another benefit is to increase maintanability. Reusing code removes the need to write duplicate code. This means that we can create a single source of truth.
  
### d)
Abstraction can create high cohesion and low coupling through use of interfaces. An example of this can be seen in a light switch.
```java
interface Switchable {
	void turnOn();
}

clas Lamp implements Switchable {
	public void turnOn() {
		System.out.println("Light is on !");
	}
}

class Switch {
	void flip()
}
```

## Question 5
### a)
