## Question 1
### (a)
- An entity is an object or thing to represent. In a database, the entity is the table. The "MovieActor", "Actor", "Movie" are entities of the ERD
- An attribute is a characteristic of an entity. In a database, it is the columns in the table. "MovieActorId", "MovieID", "ActorID" are all attributes of the "MovieActor" table.
- A relationship is how one table relates to another table. For example, the table "MovieActor" has a many to one relationship to the "Actor" table. This means that the movie table can have many movieActor tables. But movieActor can only have one Movie table.
- A primary key is a unique attribute inside a table. It cannot be null, and has to be unique. It is used to identify a row in a table.
- A foreign key is an attribute in a table, which corresponds to the primary key of another table. It is used to maintain relationships.

### (b)
```sql
SELECT title, genreID FROM movie
WHERE releaseYear<2020;
```

### (c)
```sql
SELECT CONCAT(firstname, ' ', lastname) AS fullname
FROM Actor LEFT JOIN MovieActor USING (ActorID)
WHERE MovieActor.ActorID IS NULL;
```

### (d)
```sql
SELECT AVG(Rating) as AverageRating, title
FROM Review JOIN Movie USING (MovieID)
GROUP BY title;
```


### (e)
```sql
ALTER TABLE Movie ADD COLUMN Budget DECIMAL(10,2);
```

## Question 2
The primary objectives of normalisation is to reduce redundant/duplicate data, ensure data integrity, and make relationships reliable.

First Normal Form (1NF)
Ensure the database is atomic/has atomicity. Each row can only contain one singular indivisible value.

Second Normal Form (2NF)
Must already be in 1NF
Ensure there are no partial dependencies. These are attributes which half rely on a primary key. For example, in a table with a composite primary key, each attribute must relate to every primary key within the table. If only some attributes rely on one, and some on the other, then there is a partial dependency.

Third Normal Form (3NF)
Must already be in 1NF and 2NF
Make sure there are no transitive dependencies. These are attributes which rely on an attribute which is not a primary key. We want to make sure that each attribute relies on a primary key

### (b)
A Director entity can be added to the ERD. This table would be used to store information about the director of each movie, similar to the actors entity.
It should have these attributes:
- Firstname VARCHAR(30)
- Lastname VARCHAR(30)
- DirectorID INT
It should have these relationships:
- 1:N relationship with the movie table, so that each movie can have only one director, and each director can have many movies.


## Question 3

## Question 4