## [[道德经|Home]]

---
## 2

*In this world, beauty is called beauty because there is ugliness.*
*Good is called good because there is evil.*

*Thus, emptiness and existence transform into each other,*
*Difficult and easy come from each other.*
*Long and short compare to each other,*
*High and low flow from each other,*
*Sounds and voices blend together in harmony,*
*Before and after follow eachother.*

*Knowing this, the sage acts by doing nothing,*
*And reaches without saying a word.*
*The ten thousand things arise but he is silent.*
*Things grow but he takes nothing for himself.*

*He acts but doesn't compel.*
*He creates but seeks no recognition.*
*By not seeking recognition, he has nothing to lose.*

---

There are many pleasures and displeasures in this world, and they are like a cruel self balancing scale. Take happiness and sadness as an example. We only know of the highs in life when we experience the lows. With this distincion, if we wish only for happiness, the there will surely be saddness. The more we aim for, and chase one end of the scale, the more unbalanced it becomes.

This scale applies to all aspects of living, and is closley intertwined within human nature. We only know of good, because there is evil. Or beauty, because there is ugliness. Long and short, emptiness and existence, the before and the after. 

Instead of constantly chasing one end of the scale, we should instead aim for balance, the inaction, [[WuWei]]. Do remember that this is not inaction as in being lazy. This is inaction as in we don't change or force things to become a certain way. Whether it be relationships, grades or jobs. Instead, we should observe, and take the opportunities already given to us. Instead of wanting to do good for the sole purpose of recognition, we should instead only do the best to what we can do. Follow the flow of nature, and one will become closer to Dao.

When results do appear from inaction, we shall not take credit for it. It is not a case of being humble, or being modest. After all, it wasn't due to our efforts that caused it to happen. We only allowed an opportunity to unfold, and let it flow naturally. One should become self aware, and let go of their desires. With no desires, you have nothing to lose. Only then, can you find Dao.
