## [[道德经 Study|Home]]

---
## 1

*The Dao that can be spoken is not the eternal Dao*
*The name that can be named is not the eternal name.*
*Nameless, the beginning of heaven and earth.*
*Named, the mother of ten thousand things.*

*Being empty, see the wonder.*
*Being present, see the appearance.*
*These two are the same but have different names,*
*This is mystery.*

*Mystery upon mystery,*
*The doorway to wonder.*

---

Dao cannot be taught, or summed up with words or meanings. It is like trying to explain colour to a blind person. It doesn't matter how much adjectives, or the time taken to explain it. They will never fully understand colour.

Wouldn't the DaoDeJing be a book of hipocrisy then? It depends on how you view LaoZi's work. If you view the DaoDeJing as the concrete steps you follow to find Dao, then you are chasing rainbows. This book does not tell us how to find Dao. It only pushes us in the right direction, so that we may find Dao ourselves.

When you first try to find Dao, you will only see the surface of what it truely is. What we percieve to be the Dao, may not neccesarily be the the true Dao. For example, what is the difference between a famous name branded bag, as opposed to a cheaper less known bag? On the surface level, the expensive bag is seen as better. It may be valued more simply due to it being well known. Yet, when seen objectively, you realise that there is virtually no difference between them. One is only valued more due to the apparent value we give it, both are still bags at the end of the day.

To find Dao, we must first percieve objectively. We must empty ourselves of any preconceptions about the Dao. We cannot be swayed by personal opinions or bias on what we might think the Dao might be like. Only when we stop chasing, then, we will find the Dao.
