## Question 1

## Question 2
### (a)
Modularity is a design principle that breaks down a piece of software into small self contained components called modules. It is important because it allows for encapsulation, high cohesion, and easier maintainability.

Encapsulation is the bundling of data and methods into a single unit called a class. 

It relates to and increases cohesion, because each class has a single well defined purpose, grouping related data and behaviour together. 

It also relates to and reduces coupling, as it minimises dependencies between classes by restricting access to implementation details, exposing only methods and variables which are needed.

### (b)
Inheritance increases coupling between classes and components. This is because it can cause dependencies between a child and parent class. This can cause high coupling, as child classes are reliant on code tied to the parent class

Inheritance can also lower cohesion, because creating many child/sub classes can dilute what the main focus of the parent class is. This means that instead of having a singular class with a main focus, it is now split across many classes and sub classes. To understand how one of the child class works, you may need to go back and forth between the parent and child class code, making it hard to follow (lowering cohesivenes)


### (c)
An interface is used to define a set of methods that a class must implement, without specifying its actual implementation.
In UML, there are two ways to show an interface.
- Lollipop/ball and socket notation:
  This is when a class connects to an interface using a ball and socket. Essentially, the class is the "socket", and the interface is the "ball"
- Class notation:
  This is when a class is connected to an interface by using a dotted arrow, leading from the interface to the class. Usually it also has the word "extends"
- 
In the diagram, it shows that Checkout has an interface called CardProcessing. This reduces coupliing because Checkout only depends on an abstract CardProcessing interface, not a class. It also increases cohesion because the methods in CardProcessing is separates, into its own well defined purpose.

## Question 3
It is a systematic process used to discover, analyze, and document the requirements needed for a piece of software. It is used as a bridge that translates what the stakeholder wants, into goals for the developer to build the software.


## Question 4

## Question 5