---
tags: 
aliases:
---
A program becomes a process when it is loaded into memory

## Memory
**Stack**
Contains temporary data, such as function parameters, return addresses, and local variables./
**Heap**
Memory that is dynamically allocated during run time
- It grows and shrinks dynamically when needed

**Data Section**
This contains global variables

**Text Section**
This is the program code

## Multiple Copies of a Web Browser
Each copy would be its own process.
This is because although the text sections are the same, the stackm heap, and data section are separate and unique to each copy.


## Process State
**New State**
When a process is created/begins

**Running State**
Instructions are being executed and runs on the cpu

**Ready State**
Process waits for the OS to assign it to run be run

**Waiting State**
The computer is waiting for some event, such as waiting for an input from a user. It remains in the waiting state until it is finished.

**Terminated State**
The process has finished execution

### Process State Transitions
Progression between states is controlled by the operating system

**Interrupt Transition**
An interrupt transition can be generated by two things
1. External application/hardware event
2. Time slice assigned by the scheduler expires

**I/O or Wait**
This arrises when the process needs to pause and gather extra data
- May take time, the CPU may be freed to allow it to work on other processes in the meatime

**Scheduler Dispatch**
When the process runs on the CPU, based on the operating system schedule scheme

## Process Scheduling
Process scheduling consists of selecting available processes for program execution on the CPU, following 2 objectives

**Multiprogramming**
Used to have some process running at all times, to maximise CPU utilisation

**Timesharing**
Used to switch the CPU among processes, so that a user can interact between different programs without delay.
Such as watching a video, whilst playing music, whilst moving the cursor.

## Context Switch
This is the switching of the CPU from one process (or thread) to another. It is also known as CPU switch.
- It takes time

## Process Queues
**Job Queue**
Set of all processes in the system. Such as all the processes running in task manager

**Ready Queue**
Set of all processes that is residing in main memory, and ready to be used.

**Device Queue**
Set of processes waiting for an I/O device
- Each device will have its own queue

## Scheduler
**Long-term scheduler (Job Scheduler)**
Examins the job queue, and selects which process to run on the ready queue.
- Controls the degree of multiprogramming
**Short-term scheduler (CPU Scheduler)**
Examins ready queue, and select which process to run on the CPU.
- Short CPU time slices

**Medium Term Scheduling**
- Reduces the degree of multiprogramming
- Improves the process mix (I/O bound and CPU bound)
- 

## I/O bound
Example, copying a file from one drive to another drive
- There is very low computation being done
Contains many short cpu bursts
- Short term scheduler has little to do, as the ready queue will almost always be empty

## CPU bound
When a program spends most of its time calculating and performing mathematical operations
**Example**
Decrypting and encrypting files

- I/O waiting queue will be empty, devices will go unused, and the system becomes unbalanced

## Balanced Processes
When it is neither I/O bound or cpu bound. It is equal

## Multiprogramming
When multiple processes are running at the cpu at one time. It controls how many processes are terminated, and how many processes are ran/created
If there are more processes terminated than created, that means the CPU spends a lot of time in idle, wasting computing power.
However, if there are more processes being created than being terminated, then the computer may crash

## Why/When are Processes Created?
- Interactive Logon
  The user logs into the operating system
- User starts a program
- Created by the Operating system to provide a service
  The OS can create a processes to provide a function on behalf of a user, without the user having to waits (eg. the process to control printing)
- Spawned by and existing procwess
  Used for the purpose of modularityt or exploit parallelism, a usesr can dictate the creation of a number of processes. (EG. chrome/firefox tabs)

**Parent Process**
The creating process is called the parent process

**Child Process**
New processes from the parent process are called child processes
The only difference between a child process and a parent process is that they have a shared text section, but an individiual every other section

```
Two execution options  
– Parent and children execute concurrently  
– Parent waits until children terminate
```

## Terminating and Force Terminating
**Terminating**
Think of it as asking the process to exit politely. The process will begin to tidy itself up, and end

**Force Terminating**
Think of it as killing a process using a shotgun. This is because the process isnt given time to tidy itself, clear memory and variables used, etc

### Reasons for Process Termination
- Normal completion, when the process finishes
- Arithmetic Error (dividing by 0)
- Invalid instruction execution
- Type error (concatenation a string and an integer)
- Insufficient memory available (computer runs out of memory)
- Memory Bounds violation (accessing the 6th index of a 5 element array)
## Checking Running Processes on Firefox
about:processes

how to check which options
about:about

## CPU Cache
L1 cache is the fastest
L2 cache is faster
L3 cache is fast

Data stored in memory is moved to the CPU cache, so that the CPU can access them

## Contention
Great demand on a limited resource.
For example, the power grid. During the busy times, the price is increased due to increased strain,
For example, some wifi providers. Contention in this case means, if everyone on an estate is using wifi intensive tasks, then the speed of the wifi may decrease

## Concurrent
Running at parallel/the same time



# See Also

