## Question 1
### (a)
**Entity**: A thing or object that represents a real world object. In this case, the entities are the tables `friendship`, `post`, `users`, and `likes`.

**Attribute**: A property/characteristic of of an entity. In this case, the fields `userid1`, `userid2`, `friendsince` are attributes of the entity `friendship`

**Relationship**: A relationship is how one table links to another table. For example, the table posts has a `1:N` (`one to many) relationship with the table `users`

**Primary Key**: A unique attribute in a table. This means that there are no duplicates, cannot be NULL, and that each value is different. It is used to identify a row in a table

**Foreign Key**: An attribute in a table that corresponds with the value of a primary key from another table

### (b)
```sql
SELECT title, username 
FROM post JOIN users USING (userid)
WHERE postdate < '2023-01-01'; 
```

### (c)
```sql
SELECT concat(firstname, ' ', lastname)
FROM users LEFT JOIN post USING (userid)
WHERE postid IS NULL;
```

### (d)
```sql
SELECT title, AVG(likescount) as AverageLikes
FROM post
GROUP BY title;
```

### (e)
```
ALTER TABLE post ADD COLUMN Shares INTEGER;
```

## Question 2
### (a) !!!
- To reduce data duplicates between tables
- To reduce redundency within the database
- Eliminating data anomalies, such as incorrectly entered values or formats
- Ensuring data integrity, so that relationships between data are consistent, and data are in logical tables

1NF - Atomicity
Each row in a table should contain only a single value

2NF - No Partial Dependencies
Every attribute in a table must depend on a primary key. In the case of composite keys, each attribute must depend on both primary key. Attributes cannot depend on only part of a primary key.


3NF - No Transitive Dependencies
Attributes cannot depend on a non-key attribute.

### (b)
Another entity relevant to the platform could be a "saved" entity.
This table stores posts that are saved by the user, to be looked upon in the future.
It should have these attributes
- postid int 
- userid int
- savedate timestamp

It should have these relationships
- 1:N to the users table
- M:1 to the post table

### (c)

```sql
INSERT INTO Post 
VALUES (202, 'First Day', 'user123', '2024-01-01'); 

INSERT INTO User (UserID, Username, Email) 
VALUES (201, "user@example.com", "User Name"); 

INSERT INTO User (UserID, Username, Email) 
VALUES (101, 'alice', 'alice@example.com', '2023-01-01');
```

There are many errors when attempting to insert data into the database

**First Query**
Due to not specifying which attributes are to be inserted, there should be at least 7 fields, however there are only 5 values in the VALUES()
The table is called 'post' but the query uses 'Post'
The 'First Day' is a string, yet it is trying to insert into the userid integer attribute
The date is inserted into the content attribute, yet it should be in the postdate

**Second Query**
The table is called 'users' but the query uses 'User'
The query inserts 3 fields into the UserID, Username, Email attributes. However, the username and email are swapped inside of the VALUES (), which causes it to insert into the wrong attributes

**Third Query**
The table is called 'users' but the query uses 'User'
The query inserts into 3 attributes UserID, Username, Email. However, 4 different values are given

## Question 3
### (a)
```sql
ALTER TABLE post ALTER COLUMN postdate SET NOT NULL;
```

### (b)
```sql
SELECT title, TO_CHAR(PostDate, 'DD Mon YYYY') AS formattedDate
FROM posts;
```

### (c)
