---
tags:
  - TU856
  - CMPU1012
---

#### [[TU856 - Computer Science]]
#### [[CMPU 1012 - IT Fundamentals]]

---

# IT Complexity
The intermeshing and entanglement of hardware, software, networks, and other parts of systems.

## Hardware Complexity
Complexity obtained through hardware. The significance of developing, planning, and implementing new and improved hardware design is enourmous, due to the growing of its complexity.

### The Exponential Increase of Transistors
According to [[Moore's Law]], the complexity of transistors is not a linear increase, but exponential. Every 2 years the complexity of integrated circuits increase, as they get denser and denser with the amount of transistors.

### The One Device Fits All Trope
Adding and trying to make one device, such as a mobile phone or computer, do many things. Comparing the modern PC and the first PC's made, the complexity has increased by a multitude, as more and more features are added.

## Software Complexity
Complexity obtained through software, it is often viewed in terms of functionality; the more function in the source code, the more complex the software will be.

### The Linking of Many Programs Togethor
Software is made more complex, by having many programs link to eachother. Such as a program calling functions from another program. 

### The Amount of Variables and Arguments
Software complexity can also be based on these two factors, the amount of variables defined and used, and the number of arguments/parmeters used in a function call. Programs which utilises many variables can make it more prone to bugs, and harder to understand, maintain, and migrate.

## Software Complexity Metrics
The measurement on how complext a piece of software is. This is very important, as evaluating the complexity index of a program can allow

### Size Based Metrics
Measuring certain aspects of the software, such as the amount of the lines of code. However, there will be differences in scale between different programming langauges, as each are typed and designed differently.

### Halstead's Metrics
Metric based on counting the amount of operaters and operands
- n1 = number of unique operators
- n2 = number of unique operands
- N1 = total number of operators
- N2 = total number of operands