---
tags: 
aliases:
---
A program becomes a process when it is loaded into memory

## Memory
**Stack**
Contains temporary data, such as function parameters, return addresses, and local variables./
**Heap**
Memory that is dynamically allocated during run time
- It grows and shrinks dynamically when needed

**Data Section**
This contains global variables

**Text Section**
This is the program code

## Multiple Copies of a Web Browser
Each copy would be its own process.
This is because although the text sections are the same, the stackm heap, and data section are separate and unique to each copy.


## Process State
**New State**
When a process is created/begins

**Running State**
Instructions are being executed and runs on the cpu

**Ready State**
Process waits for the OS to assign it to run be run

**Waiting State**
The computer is waiting for some event, such as waiting for an input from a user. It remains in the waiting state until it is finished.

**Terminated State**
The process has finished execution

### Process State Transitions
Progression between states is controlled by the operating system

**Interrupt Transition**
An interrupt transition can be generated by two things
1. External application/hardware event
2. Time slice assigned by the scheduler expires

**I/O or Wait**
This arrises when the process needs to pause and gather extra data
- May take time, the CPU may be freed to allow it to work on other processes in the meatime

**Scheduler Dispatch**
When the process runs on the CPU, based on the operating system schedule scheme

## Process Scheduling
Process scheduling consists of selecting available processes for program execution on the CPU, following 2 objectives

**Multiprogramming**
Used to have some process running at all times, to maximise CPU utilisation

**Timesharing**
Used to switch the CPU among processes, so that a user can interact between different programs without delay.
Such as watching a video, whilst playing music, whilst moving the cursor.

## Context Switch
This is the switching of the CPU from one process (or thread) to another. It is also known as CPU switch.
- It takes time

## Process Queues
**Job Queue**
Set of all processes in the system. Such as all the processes running in task manager

**Ready Queue**
Set of all processes that is residing in main memory, and ready to be used.

**Device Queue**
Set of processes waiting for an I/O device
- Each device will have its own queue



# See Also

